# CS360-MobileArchitectrogramming
<ins>Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?</ins>  
The app is designed for managing inventory based on user inputs. Users can log in, create an account, as well as view, add, update, and delete inventory items in a database through an intuitive mobile interface. Users can enable SMS notifications on low inventory, as well as set the quantity threshold for when the message alert is sent.  This app was designed to address the need for small businesses to keep track of their parts in inventory, and update information as values or locations change.  

<ins>What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?</ins>  
To implement an intuitive app interface, activity views needed to be made for logging a user in, a main inventory screen for inventory viewing and modification, and a settings screen to update necessary SMS settings for alerts.  There are buttons for adding/updating inventory, a delete icon next to every part in the database to remove it from inventory, and a settings icon on the main screen to get to the SMS settings.  I used a top-down interface flow to lead the user to the next steps in tracking inventory.  A search field is at the top so the user can find relevant parts, the inventory is displayed below the search bar, then at the bottom is a field to add and update inventory.  My design is successful because it keeps the inventory process flow in mind so the user can find any parts, update quantities, or even remove parts completely if they are no longer relevant.  

<ins>How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?</ins>  
When developing the app, I initially designed the user activity screens based on the needs of the process flow.  I then created functions to navigate between the views, before integrating the functionality of each piece of the app individually.  As I completed one function, such as building the database, I worked though adding the required functionality piece by piece.  Working in small chunks helps keep the tasks manageaable, so that development doesn't feel overwhelming.  I will continue handling small tasks to work through future projects as a whole.  

<ins>How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?</ins>  
To test functionality, I continued rebuilding the app and running it from my Google Pixel 6 attached to my computer via USB-C in debug mode.  This is important because it gives the developer a feel for how the app works for users while poking though the product for any bugs.  It revealed when something wasn't working as intended, which allowed me to research more on how to solve the problem.  I noticed that because I built the users database table with a primary key of an incremental ID, the username could be duplicated.  Instead of making the username the primary key, I created a validation function to prevent creating multiple users with the same username.  Working through the app testing in a hands-on nature allows you to notice issues you may have missed during development.  

<ins>Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?</ins>  
When designing and finalizing the app, I had to work through creating a function to allow the user to set the SMS notification alert quantity level within the settings screen.  I initially was focusing on how to use SQLite to verify value levels, but I realized i could just check quantity level on update or addition and see if the value was below the threshold.  Simplifying the process makes finding suitable solutions easier.  

<ins>In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?</ins>  
I was very successful in implementing the recyclerview to dynamically display the inventory list for the user.  When an Item is deleted, it is removed from the recyclerview and the infrormation is automatically updated for the user right away.  I also used similar functionality to clear out the plaintext fields for when the user decides they don't want to add/update the part they were about to use.  
